This repo contains all of the documents I have been able to recover associated with my Senior Honors Thesis project from New York University.
For my work, I won [best presentation award at NYU College of Arts and Science's 44th Undergraduate Research Conference](https://cas.nyu.edu/content/dam/nyu-as/cas/documents/deans-undergraduate-research-fund/URC_2018_Winners.pdf).

# Ghosting ASLR: A Spectre Extension
### Bryant Curto, Computer Science, Mathematics Sponsor: Professor Christopher Mitchell, Computer Science

Modern computer processors implement optimizations known as branch prediction and speculative execution. If a processor is waiting to retrieve a value from memory to determine which branch of code to execute, these features enable the processor to predict the code path and begin executing. The hope is that the path is the correct one, thereby reducing the overhead of reading from memory and improving overall performance. If the path is incorrect, the results of the execution are discarded, and execution resumes down the correct path. Further, to help prevent against malicious actors from gaining control over an executing program, operating systems implement Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), resulting in the address space positions of important data areas of a process being randomized. Recently, a new attack, named Spectre, was discovered that exploits a flaw in many processor designs that enables the reading of arbitrary memory locations by measuring the change in state of the cache after a specific region of code has been speculatively executed. This project builds off of these findings and shows that this flaw can be used by a malicious actor to get the layout of a program’s address space, thereby defeating ASLR. In doing so, one of many well-known attacks (e.g., Return Oriented Programming), which ASLR is meant to defend against, can be performed.

The author hopes to further highlight the danger of this processor design flaw in that it can be used in new and unforeseen ways, in conjunction with other methods, to launch a successful attack.
